[general]
name=RORB Tools
qgisMinimumVersion=3.22
qgisMaximumVersion=4.99
description=RORB catchment preparation, control vector builder, and results viewer.
version=3.15
author=Safin/Stephen
email=tszyilin@gmail.com

about=A combined RORB toolbox with three toolbar icons:
    1. Create RORB Layers — create centroid, confluence and reach layer templates
    2. Build RORB .catg — auto-name layers, check links, build RORB/URBS control vectors
    3. RORB Results Viewer — browse .out files, plot hydrographs, export critical events

    Bundles pyromb>=0.3 for the build tools — no separate install needed.

tracker=https://github.com/tszyilin/QGIS_RORB/issues
repository=https://github.com/tszyilin/QGIS_RORB
homepage=https://github.com/tszyilin/QGIS_RORB

hasProcessingProvider=yes

changelog=
v3.15: Results Viewer: Critical Events — the Volume switch is now a toggle-pill
    control relocated to a bar directly above the plot. When ON, the hydrograph
    plot shades the area under the Rep TP curve (∫Q dt) and the volume value is
    annotated in the plot title and legend; the Volume column in the table and
    the CSV/XLSX exports remain gated by the same switch.
v3.14: Results Viewer: Critical Events tab — new "Show Volume (m³)" switch adds a
    Volume column computed by trapezoidal integration of the Rep TP hydrograph
    (∫Q dt). CSV and per-node XLSX exports also include the Volume column when
    the switch is enabled.
v3.13: Results Viewer: Export tab — new "Proportional Loss (PLR) per AEP" table
    (defaults 50→0.92, 20→0.84, 10→0.77, 5→0.72, 2→0.65, 1→0.60; editable, add/
    remove rows, reset defaults) and a new "Export Hyetographs with PLR
    (_rf_plr.csv)" button that multiplies each event's rainfall by the PLR
    matching the event's AEP (percentage, "1 in N", and EY labels all match).
    Events whose AEP has no PLR row are reported and skipped.
v3.12: Results Viewer: Hydrograph Viewer — new "Rainfall:" dropdown in the top
    control bar lets you switch the hyetograph style between Bar (default), Line
    (plotted at bar centres) and Step (post-step). Line/Step keep the same blue
    colour and inverted right-axis behaviour as the bars.
v3.11: Results Viewer: Hydrograph Viewer — the left "Temporal Patterns" panel
    is now split into two sections. Top (checkboxes, multi-select, all on by
    default) controls which TP hydrographs are plotted; bottom (radio buttons,
    single-select) picks which TP the rainfall bars are drawn for. The rainfall
    radio defaults to the representative TP of the currently shown duration
    (critical duration when "Critical (auto)" is selected).
v3.10: Results Viewer: Critical Events tab — CSV export now includes a
    "Print Node" column, and a new "Export Critical XLSX (per-node sheets)…"
    button lets you pick any subset of nodes and writes each node to its own
    sheet (sheet name = node) in a single workbook. Fix: scenario scan workers
    are now tracked per-scenario name instead of a single self._worker slot,
    which prevented a rare QGIS crash ("QThread: Destroyed while thread is
    still running") when loading a saved scenario set or using Add Multiple
    on slow storage.
v3.9: Results Viewer: Hydrograph Viewer regains the rainfall overlay (bars for
    the representative TP on a right-side blue axis). Export tab gains a TUFLOW
    .tef import + editable filename template (~AEP~ / ~DUR~ / ~TP~ tokens —
    reorder by editing the template). Export "Scenario" now follows the
    left-panel selection (shown as green bold text instead of a dropdown).
    Scenario-set .json persists the .tef path + naming template, and the
    unsaved-changes banner now trips on .tef / template edits too. Fix:
    x-axis auto-crop now includes the rainfall span so bars remain visible on
    low-flow storms (e.g. 50% AEP on a large catchment).
v3.8: Results Viewer: Hydrograph Viewer and Duration Envelope plot titles now
    prepend the active scenario name (e.g. "MyCase  |  1% AEP  |  6 hr  |
    outlet") so plots exported/screenshotted from multiple scenarios are
    self-identifying.
v3.7: Results Viewer: scenario list now reorders via drag-and-drop (Theme
    Presenter style) — the ↑ Up / ↓ Down buttons under the list have been
    removed. The underlying scenario dicts, hidden combo and downstream
    tables/plots update to match the new order automatically.
v3.6: Results Viewer: scenario-set persistence controls moved from the left
    scenario panel to the top-right of the dialog and split into three buttons —
    "Save As…" (write to a new .json), "Save" (overwrite the currently loaded
    file, prompts if none), and "Import…" (load a saved set with replace/append).
v3.5: Results Viewer: new "Save Set…" / "Load Set…" buttons on the scenario bar
    — save the current list of scenarios (name + folder pairs) to a .json file
    and reload it later, with a choice to replace the current list or append.
    Portable across projects, complementing the per-project auto-persist.
v3.4: Results Viewer: new "Add Multiple…" button on the scenario bar — opens a
    dialog to enter/browse several (name, folder) scenario rows at once (or
    auto-populate one row per subfolder of a chosen parent folder), so multiple
    scenarios can be added in a single action instead of one at a time.
v3.3: Results Viewer: new "Duration Envelope" tab — peak flow vs storm duration
    with a box-and-whisker for each duration showing the spread across all
    temporal patterns (box = Q1–Q3, whiskers = min–max, dots = individual TPs),
    a dashed mean-of-TPs line, the critical duration highlighted, a per-duration
    stats table (min/Q1/median/mean/Q3/max, rep TP) and CSV export.
v2.26: Run RORB: "Build .catg" is now a tab inside the Run RORB dialog itself
    (alongside "Calc. Order") instead of a separate button in the pipeline
    dialog that opened a second window — building a .catg now hands off to
    the Calc. Order tab in place.
v2.25: Run RORB: parameter precision now matches RORBWin — kc, m, IL, CL are
    written to 3 decimal places in the .par file (was 4), and the IL/CL spinboxes
    now display 3 decimal places (was 2). Results now match RORBWin output exactly.
v2.24: Run RORB: fix long-duration ARF calculation — was using a fixed 10% AEP
    for ARF_long regardless of the design AEP, causing rare-event (1%, 2%) .stm
    files to overestimate depth at long durations (24–168 hr). Now uses the actual
    design AEP, matching RORBWin behaviour.
v2.23: Run RORB: batch .out summary now shows all ISA kc/m/IL/CL in non-lumped
    mode (was only showing ISA 1 regardless); peak column headers now correctly
    list all print nodes including ungauged interstation nodes (was only listing
    the single outlet node while printing all peak values).
v2.22: Results Viewer: Export tab — switching scenario now clears Extra Events
    (they belong to the previous case); node combo defaults to last node (outlet)
    on first load; Extra Events table now supports right-click to open .out,
    .stm, or containing folder.
v2.21: Run RORB: fix areal temporal pattern numbering — tp numbers now run
    1–10 for areal patterns (was applying the AEP class offset, giving tp21–30
    for rare AEPs instead of tp1–10).
v2.20: Run RORB: fix areal temporal pattern standard-area selection — now uses
    total catchment area to select the appropriate standard area from the CSV
    (was a NameError at runtime). Results Viewer: Files tab now supports
    right-click to open .out, .stm, or containing folder — matching Critical
    Events and Export tabs.
v2.19: Run RORB: fix "No runs" with Areal_R_Increments.csv — detect the Areal
    temporal pattern format (numeric Area column instead of AEP class) and
    make all patterns available for any AEP. Generated .stm files now correctly
    label the temporal pattern as "areal temporal patterns, standard area = N km²"
    matching RORBwin output.
v2.17: Run RORB: fix "No runs" error when using ARR Data Hub IFD depth CSVs
    whose AEP headers are formatted as "1% AEP" instead of "1%" — the
    normaliser now strips the trailing " AEP" suffix before matching.
v2.16: Results Viewer: Export tab preview table now supports right-click to
    open the .out or .stm file for any listed event, or to open the
    containing folder — matching the Critical Events tab behaviour.
v2.15: Results Viewer: add "Export Temporal Patterns (_tp.csv)" button — exports
    the temporal pattern as % of burst depth per time step for each selected event.
v2.14: Run RORB: fix ISA group parsing — Parameters table now shows the correct
    7.2 print nodes and outlet from the .catg (was showing only "outlet").
    Add Refresh button in Parameter configuration to re-read ISA groups from
    the current .catg without re-browsing.
v2.13: Run RORB: fix Parameters table in non-lumped (vary) mode — rows now show
    ISA groups (matching RORBwin's Parameter Specification dialog) instead of
    individual sub-areas.
v2.12: Run RORB: add "Suggest Kc" helper dialog — choose a regional equation
    (ARR Book 7 area-based or Dav-based Pearse et al.) or the RORB Manual
    default (2.2 × √A) to compute a starting kc for the selected ISA group,
    then adopt it into the Parameters table with one click.
v2.11: Results Viewer: fix Critical Events hydrograph x-axis clipping to 2 hr when
    the selected event has zero flow — now shows the full storm duration so rainfall
    bars are visible.
v2.10: Build .catg: fix sub-catchment areas being wrong (stuck at the default
    value from the first polygon) for some polygons — replace the fragile
    polygon-id-field lookup with a direct centroid→polygon spatial join; also
    fix total-area display double-counting when two centroid points share the
    same polygon.
v2.9: Run RORB: new Calc. Order tab — browse a .catg file to see print nodes,
    their names and average distances in calculation order. Build .catg: new
    "Rewrite input files" output mode overwrites original shapefiles in place
    (with retry for Windows file-lock). pyromb fix: handle unvisited traversal
    states; prevent duplicate node IDs in the graphics block.
v2.8: Build .catg: fix print-node location names being dropped (and stray
    "NULL" text appearing) when writing .catg files; pipeline dialog is
    shorter and the stats sidebar shows compact single-line counts
    (Sub-catchment/Junction/Centroid/Reaches) instead of the print-node list.
v2.7: Build .catg: confluence layer template gains print_node/print_code fields; Print Node Settings panel lets you assign print codes (7/7.1/7.2) interactively and write them back to the layer; stats sidebar shows feature counts after pipeline runs; pyromb now writes print instructions into the control vector at marked confluences. Run RORB: fix ISA table row names in non-lumped mode.
v2.6: Results Viewer: hydrograph viewer highlights the representative TP for the selected duration (not always the critical duration's TP); duration combo label shows actual critical duration (e.g. "Critical (6 hr)") instead of "Critical (auto)".
v2.5: Fix SyntaxError on QGIS 3.28 (Python 3.9) — replace match/case statements in bundled pyromb vendor code with equivalent if/elif chains.
v2.4: Build .catg: error reaches and nodes shown with red thick highlight and red bold ID labels on map canvas (replaces yellow selection).
v2.3: Build .catg: after running checks, error reaches (ID mismatch, unmatched, negative slope) and error nodes (isolated, extra outlets) are automatically selected in the QGIS map so they are visually highlighted.
v2.2: Fix Results Viewer crash (silent segfault) on QGIS 3.38+ when clicking the toolbar icon — defer setFloating(True) to next event loop tick.
v2.1: Run RORB: AEP labels normalised ('63.20%' matches '63.2%'); extreme AEPs ('1 in 10000', '1 in 3684613'/PMP etc.) mapped to rare temporal patterns automatically; AEP combo filtered to recognisable labels; duration combo shows only durations present in both IFD and temporal-patterns CSVs.
v2.0: Build .catg: named shapefiles added to layer panel when saved to folder; single-outlet topology check added. Run RORB: batch-from-.stm-folder mode; Build .catg embedded as first tab. Results Viewer: RORB <v6.52 time-axis correction flagged in Files tab, Hydrograph Viewer preview, and Export warning banner; export message shows actual time step per file.
v1.16: Lumped ISA row count read from .catg control vector (all -99 = 1 group); row count no longer hardcoded.
v1.15: Lumped mode now shows 1 row (Num ISA :1) instead of one row per sub-area.
v1.14: Fix ISA label overflow in .par writer — 10+ catchments no longer trigger Fortran decimal error.
v1.12: Fix ModuleNotFoundError for pyromb on initGui() — each file that uses
    pyromb now has a self-contained fallback to the bundled vendor copy,
    so the plugin loads even if pyromb is not pip-installed.
v1.11: Remove "Run RORB" button — suite now contains only the catchment tools
    and results viewer (3 icons).
v1.1: Add "Run RORB" toolbar icon and bundle pyromb.
v1.0: Initial combined release — RORB Catchment Tools + RORB Results Viewer in one toolbar.

tags=rorb,hydrology,stormwater,urbs,catchment,routing,flood,runoff
category=Vector
icon=icon.svg
experimental=False
deprecated=False
server=False
